It has been a grim start for 2015 as far as European tolerance is concerned. Mosques have been attacked in Sweden. Demonstrations continue in Germany against the "Islamisation of the west". And antisemitism is on the rise.

We knew something nasty had been unleashed when the European elections last year produced a surge of populist xenophobic parties. Many explanations have been given: the economic crisis, unemployment, the disenfranchisement of the middle classes, anxieties fed by globalisation. Pointing fingers at strangers or supposed intruders has become almost an automatic reflex. Anti-immigration parties are having a field day. All our problems come from the outside, from some kind of invasion: that's how the narrative goes. In France the novelist Michel Houellebecq is making headlines with a new book imagining the election in 2022 of a Muslim president.

There are, it is true, signs of a democratic revival against racism. In solidarity with Muslims, some citizens have been demonstrating in European cities. It is perhaps only when the worst happens - arson attacks on mosques, or neo-Nazi groups in the streets  - that people start mobilising for common decency. But the trend is worrisome indeed. Europeans seem to be grappling with this one question: how do I live alongside people of a different cultural background, the Other?

In times like this, literature and history can help us see things more clearly. I turned to the Polish writer Ryszard Kapuscinski, who spent most of his life travelling across the developing world and reflecting on how Europeans relate to that huge part of the global population that is non- European, and much poorer than Europeans.

In his book The Other, Kapuscinski  - who had flaws as a journalist, but certainly didn't lack curiosity for different cultures - points out how difficult it is for inhabitants of the old continent to accept that "the map of the world has changed" since decolonisation in the 1960s. After dominating the globe for hundreds of years, Europeans still have trouble dealing with the fact that they have become less central, less overpowering. And yet it is a paradox, because Europe produced arguably the first world citizen open to discovering and appreciating foreign cultures: the Greek historian Herodotus, 2,500 years ago.

I can hear the cringing: how delusional and idealistic it is to bring Herodotus into a 21st-century debate on immigration. But if roots matter ,then  Europeans must look at themselves more closely. Things were never stable, nor populations fixed in stone. Europe is after all the appendix of a great and contrasted landmass - it was always meant to be a crossroads. We may be baffled by changes, but there were times when we lived with much more diversity in our midst.

Tony Judt is great to read on this. In his book Postwar, he recalls how "the European continent was once a complex tapestry of languages, religions, communities, and nations that overlapped. Many of its cities - including some of the smallest, at the intersection of old and new imperial borders, such as Trieste, Sarajevo, Salonica, Czernowitz, Odessa, Vilnius - were truly multicultural, with Catholics, Orthodox, Muslims, Jews and others mingling."

Judt goes on: "Between 1914 and 1945, however, this Europe was reduced to ashes." As a result of war, occupation, border changes, expulsions and genocide, most people ended up living among people like them, in different states. During the cold war, the two halves of Europe lived in "hermetic national enclaves" - a world of homogeneity, notes Judt.

In the 1960s immigrants arrived in western Europe to provide a workforce, most from former colonies. Judt calls this a "new presence of 'others' living in Europe", including the millions of Muslims in today's EU. He says this presence "has outlined not only Europe's discomfort as it is faced with a renewed and growing diversity, but also the ease with which the 'other' dead of Europe's past had crept out of people's minds". So there it is: today's intolerance has its roots not just in economic frustration, but in amnesia.

Since 1989 many of Europe's centres have become "cosmopolitan global cities, whether they like it or not", writes Judt. Note the "whether they like it or not". This book was published 10 years ago, as if in anticipation of what we see today. The historian's message is that Europe's future is multicultural. Its core values are about being open to the Other. The only time Europeans experienced relative demographic homogeneity - that era of supposed tranquillity - was in the wake of Hitler's and Stalin's devastations. Such thoughts might not be enough to calm the anti-Muslim crowds .But they could help.