Bedblocking. What a phrase. People having to stay in hospital, even though they are well enough to be discharged, because there' s no social care in place for them. David Cameron says it's "a demand problem". But it's not, of course. It's a supply problem. It's hard to make money from social care. So it's not massively amenable to privatisation.

I suppose this was one of the areas where, Cameron fondly imagined, the Big Society would step in. As ever, instead, starving one part of the public sector of cash simply left another part struggling to cope with the consequences.

Back in 2010, when Gordon Brown suggested implementing a 10% levy on inherited wealth to fund social care for older people, the Conservatives had this to say: "RIP off. Now Gordon wants ? 20,000 when you die. Don't vote for Labour's new death tax."

Instead, social care for older people has had its funding cut, so there' s simply not enough money to go round. The demand problem that Cameron now speaks of is one that was entirely predictable and, indeed, entirely predicted. Policymakers have been fretting over the future challenges posed by our ageing population for decades. Now this time has arrived, and there' s nothing there in the way of provision for it.

Care for elderly people is one of those things that's not hard to sort out, given money, and almost impossible to sort out without it. It's one of those things that, in theory, offers choice - staying at home with support, moving into sheltered accommodation, going into residential care. In reality,  however, people are so terrified of the prospect of being in a position where they have to make such choices that they'd rather not think about it at all. One knows vaguely that there aren't many decent alternatives, so staying at home becomes the one thing that is comforting. Being close to the past matters when the present and the future feel like a horrible staging-post before death.

It doesn't help that there's so much sentimentality around the issue. Myleene Klass appeared to believe she was being socially aware by banging on about how awful the idea of a mansion tax is, because it would hurt little old ladies living in big houses that had been their homes for decades.

But,  actually, Klass was describing something that isn't necessarily that desirable: an elderly person living in a home she can no longer heat, clean or look after, the neighbours she once knew long gone, clinging to the past instead of living in and enjoying the present.

One of the great paradoxes of old age is that, at a time in life when change is very dynamic and has to be managed a lot, people are persuaded that trying to stop time, instead of moving forward and adapting to circumstances, is the right thing to do. Care at home is pushed as the thing to aspire to, in part because  - even though it's expensive, difficult to organise and not very satisfactory in outcome - it has the attractive advantage of needing no capital investment.

Over Christmas, I watched the film Quartet, which is set in a retirement home for musicians. One was supposed to feel a bit sorry for its inhabitants, who had known success and adulation when they were young, and who missed those days. All they had to do to raise the funds to keep the home going was put on a concert featuring the legends that were themselves.

Having looked at a couple of local care homes when my mother was ill a couple of years back, I can only say that the twilight years of those characters were indeed a fiction. Sure, nice retirement homes exist - if you can afford them. But the limitations of so many of them mean that the whole concept is sullied. Rather than being places where new phases of life are undertaken, they have become places you end up in when all hope of enjoying life is gone.

It's interesting that inheritance has become so much an aspect of debate around care for elderly people. This, too, is a tacit signal that you are too old to spend your own money on yourself. At some point, the duty is to hang on to your assets, so that they can be passed on to your family - and without nasty government death taxes. It would be nice if people weren't encouraged to believe that it was selfish to invest in their own lives just because they are no longer young.

Elderly people are blocking beds not just because they can no longer look after themselves at home, but also because our society is not encouraged to think of elderly lives as valuable and deserving of joy and fun, vitality and change. Lack of pay is one reason why people aren't queing up to work with older people. But another is that it's not seen as enjoyable, because older people are viewed as a bundle of sad, expensive, social-policy problems, rather than people with lives worth living to the full.