No matter how much anyone prayed that the Ched Evans "debate" had completed its race to the bottom this week, it was never going to have done so until we'd heard in full from Gordon Taylor. That pleasure was always in the post, and yesterday the PFA chief delivered, with what we might painfully cast as football's version of Godwin's law: a comparison with Hillsborough. "He wouldn't be the first person to be found guilty, maintained his innocence, and been proved right," Taylor opined to the BBC. "We know what happened with Hillsborough."

Oh, man  ... Gordon Taylor. Or rather, GORDON TAYLOR OBE, as his name appeared in my inbox when he emailed me once. Sensationally dim, wantonly self-interested, wildly over-remunerated and frequently morally compromised, Gordon functions as an auto-satire on all the worst things people think about football.

Reputed to be the highest paid union official in the world, and one who has been in his job for just the 33 years, Taylor has now said he didn't mean "to upset anybody", though I need hardly add that he has no plans to consider his position after his latest display of incompetence.

In which case, I hope he'll forgive my considering it for him - an act that has become as essential an annual event for me as putting up the Christmas tree or rewatching the early work of Steven Seagal. Unless Taylor's presence is dramatically revealed as the second-highest-profile instance of affirmative action for idiots in public life - the first being Iain Duncan Smith's position in government - then it hardly needs pointing out again that Gordon is no longer fit for purpose, if indeed he ever was. But more on his record shortly.

That Taylor should have rifled through his Rolodex of metaphors and alighted on the absolute archetype of victim-blaming in order to continue obliquely victim-blaming in the Ched Evans case ... well, perhaps there's a mirthless laugh to be had there. But it would take a stronger stomach than mine to manage it.

The sadness - or rather, one of many acute and diverse sadnesses - is that this was a week in which football was crying out for an intelligent and sensitive advocate, finding itself once more cast in a role it should never be required to occupy in a truly civilised society.

All manner of people appeared convinced that the game should mitigate the deficiencies of the criminal justice system, just as a worrying number were keen to say Evans was absolutely welcome to work again  - flipping burgers or sweeping the streets.

These are the jobs that are fit for rapists, we must infer, which must feel hugely complimentary to those non-rapists who are putting in shifts doing the same for minimal pay right now. Meanwhile, as the Mail's Martin Samuel pointed out, footballers - footballers! - "are placed in the same bracket as doctors, teachers or legal professionals". If that seems to you like a view of society worth shoring up, the week will have felt distinctly encouraging.

As for football fans - the great "them" of many debates - they have spent the week being cast as too thick and impressionable to be able to make their own judgments about a convicted rapist. Evans could have been nothing but a role model, presumably to the vast tumult who turn out at Boundary Park each week (4,415 on average last season).

It's as depressing as it is disturbing. Such toxicity and lunacy have attached themselves to football and its place in our society that those who love the sport as well as those who play it really need the calm, cool intellect and charm of a Shami Chakrabarti to lobby in their real interests and those of the game.

Instead,  they have Gordon Taylor, whose focus was memorably dismissed by Peter Schmeichel during one stage of the Paul Gascoigne saga. "Instead of getting great deals on cars and other luxury goods for members," the former Manchester United and Denmark goalkeeper fumed, "PFA should commit more time and funds to help the like of Gazza."

Taylor was stung - into self-defence, of course. "Peter doesn't know what we've done for Paul," he announced to the Press Association, "a lot of which has to be confidential."

It certainly does. Except Gordon just couldn't bring himself to keep it that way. The next few days were spent with this union leader giving detailed interviews on Gascoigne's mental state and past treatment, in which he divulged telephone calls with the player, made off-the-cuff pseudo-clinical diagnoses, and - unbelievably - used the union's own website to warn: "If we're not careful, it is going to be akin to George Best." Then again,  Taylor had form with sharing details of members' treatment, having done the same with Joey Barton only a few months previously.

Anyway, on we go. In 2013 came the revelation that Taylor had amassed a? 100,000 debt to a bookmaker - almost an inevitability to those who recalled him pontificating about a "zero tolerance" approach to betting among players just a couple of years before.

And no round-up of Gordon's greatest hits would be complete without a look at that endlessly intriguing confidentiality deal he signed with News International, which awarded him a? 700,000 settlement for phone-hacking in return for his silence. As the News of the World's lawyers later had it in a letter to the Commons culture, media and sport committee, Taylor's lawyers had informed them that he "wanted to be vindicated or made rich".

Given that he reportedly earns? 984,000 a year (maybe more these days), you might judge him to be rich already - but of course,  we know which option won out, a deal that precluded Taylor from breathing a word about phone-hacking to any of his union's members, who he might reasonably have concluded could have been victims themselves. As they were eventually proved (by others) to have been.

So there you have him: the pastoral carer who reveals details of his members' mental health in the noble cause of self-defence. The gambler who wishes to outlaw gamblers. The ur-phone-hacking plaintiff who agreed to take the? 700,000 and say absolutely nothing about the matter, despite being responsible for players who of course turned out to have been targeted too. And now he is the victim-blamer's victim-blamer, in a week where, you might have hazarded, even Katie Hopkins couldn't have contrived to make a grim situation worse.

Still,  experience would indicate that Taylor ignores his detractors at the very opposite of his peril. So all that remains is for me to take the early opportunity to apologise for next year's inevitable appearance of this column, and bid Mr Taylor a cordial au revoir.