Looking at what's seriously wrong with the world today, it definitely isn't Ed Sheeran. However, looking at what's wrong with British music today, it almost definitely is Ed Sheeran.

When the Brit nominations were recently announced, much of the focus was rightly on how "white" they were, similar to the Oscars. However,  for me, this was not the only reason why the Brit nominations were unsettling. I was also disturbed by the fact that Ed received multiple nominations, including best album and solo artist. I know it's only the Brits, but come on people  - how far do we intend to go with this?

I'm no musical snob. I dislike pomposity about mainstream musical tastes. I even think The X Factor is a hoot, and have written on how it's more colour blind than other parts of the entertainment industry (a point reinforced by the recent nominations).

My stance has always been: calm down, there' s room for everybody, right?

However,  it's as though Ed Sheeran has gone from being an artist to a syndrome, an effect, even a pox, and he/it is everywhere. There Ed is, performing on television shows, peddling his simpering vanilla-sound. At the Victoria's Secret fashion show, giggling at the ladies in bras like the last boy-virgin standing at freshers' week.

Ed, whose whiny music makes him sound as though he's got his tongue permanently trapped in a child safety gate. Who looks as though you'd get up close and he'd smell of Violet Bloom Febreze. Whose lukewarm monotones I fervently feel should be banned in cars, lest motorists are overcome with ennui and fatally fall asleep at the wheel.

The other odd thing is that Ed, with his inane grin and funky waistcoats, is completely sexless - exuding all the carnal charisma of a pyjama case.

Sam Smith (another multiple Brit nominee) isn't much better, though he gets extra points for being gay, and being able to sing, instead of doing what Ed does - whimpering like a dog thrown down a well. Is being unthreatening the point of Ed? That he's a good musical starter-crush for little girls who might find One Direction too frightening? If so, where' s the gender parity? How come the likes of Sheeran are rewarded for being undersexualised while most of the women in his industry are oversexualised - some because they want to be, others because they are told to, but all of them aware that the pressure is on.

While there are always exceptions, everyone knows that females are more likely to be coerced into using their sexuality. What's interesting is that now there's this corresponding bizarre inversion with males getting less and less sexy  - until finally we arrive at the industry "norm" of Sheeran, a parentally approved pop boy-dolly, who comes with guitar accessories, and makes nice soothing noises when you pull a string in his back.

Some might say it's what the audience demands, but isn't it more about being told what to want? It seems unlikely that the same audience digging Ed's mellow vibe are demanding that equivalent female artists appear scantily clad, hellbent on fellating the microphone. Do we truly believe that people sit at home saying: "Well, I'm not listening to this  - she's got all her clothes on and hasn't once pretended to orgasm,"?

In short, does it occur to anyone that Sheeran's banality, the very fact that he's permitted to be so banal, is a profoundly chauvinist fact in itself? Will we ever see a day when women would be rewarded for being as unsexy as Ed? What about all the Eds he's inspiring, who are waiting in the wings - will it ever end? Ed Sheeran might be the nicest guy in the world, but it's time that "Ed Sheeran", the effect and the pox, was identified and stopped.

Without meaning to be alarmist, I fear that there may be a royal clothes shortage. Kate, duchess of Cambridge, has always been congratulated for wearing (and re-wearing) high-street fashion. Since becoming pregnant, she's won yet more plaudits for wearing non-maternity items.

The whole thing has become overdone to the point where one could become seriously concerned that the duchess might not have enough clothes. A national embarrassment. We can't have our queen-to-be scrabbling around for some decent threads.

Perhaps we should all rifle through our wardrobes and donate something. I've got a couple of bits she could have - the hems have come down, and I'm not sure if she's into "vintage ASOS", huge flower prints or suspicious stains, but in her situation she can't afford to be too picky. I also need to know Kate's shoe size - it seems only fair that the gesture is reciprocated, and I'm wondering if she has any furry Crocs I could borrow for the spring season?

Obviously I'm being facetious, but does the duchess really have to be congratulated for doing what every woman does - which is to wear her clothes more than once?

Google Glass (the "smart" eyewear that made Joe Bloggs resemble Joe 90) is being phased out. The focus will now be on future versions of Glass, with the company feeling that the project "allowed us to learn what's important to consumers and enterprises alike". Which appears to be corporate-speak for: "We belatedly realised that everyone felt like complete berks wearing them."

I don't pretend to be cutting-edge in any way. I'm one of life's late adopters, which means that I watch other people go through teething problems with new technology while I stand on the sidelines looking gormless, occasionally jeering and feeling vindicated when things go wrong. Like now, for instance. It's not pretty, but it works for me.

With Google Glass, I didn't have long to wait. Even I could see that specs - with-screens was a non-starter and that the Nathan Barley-esque marketing line: "Your chance to walk down the high street, watching pointless stuff with one eye while looking like a prize tit" was never going to be a winner with the masses.

Commiserations to those who spent close to? 1,000 on the wearable tech, produced under the Explorer programme, expecting it to develop further. I would tell them not to be bitter; they should feel proud of their early adopting ways. Many moons ago, there would have been people investing in inventors who wanted to fly, who ran about fields flapping big fake wings, before presumably being gently escorted to a nearby asylum. In time,  this led to aeroplanes. Thus Google Glass purchasers can at least have the satisfaction of knowing that they were pioneers - the flint that created the spark that lit the fire. Or whatever analogy tech mugs prefer to make them feel better about being a grand lighter.