In the United States today, the odds of getting a degree are more tightly linked to family income than ever before, thanks to skyrocketing college costs and insufficient and misallocated federal and state financial aid funds. Although the federal government distributes about $170bn a year in financial aid to many types of students attending many types of schools, many low-income families still have to pay too much. Low-income families often end up paying about 40% of their family income for a member to attend community college - and, for four-year colleges, the bill can add up to a whopping 59% of a family's earnings. Even middle-class families may be asked to spend or borrow a quarter of their annual income to finance one child's attendance at a public university, while the costs of a private one are yet higher.

As a result, many families of modest means are unable to afford college. Students from middle- and low-income families have also become more likely to drop out from public colleges and universities, leaving with debts they can't afford to pay back rather than degrees. But these are more than just personal tragedies: they represent a significant loss to America's economy and competitiveness for decades to come.

On Friday, President Obama offered a simple, universal solution: free tuition for two years at community colleges for students who maintain a 2.5 grade point average, attend at least half-time and make steady progress towards completing their program. The federal government would cover three-quarters of the average cost of community college, and participating states would be expected to pick up the rest.

The last time a president did something this bold on higher education was the original Higher Education Act of 1965. Then,  President Lyndon Johnson had a huge Democratic majority in Congress to support his proposal. President Obama, on the other hand, faces a tougher road in a government run by Republicans who are reluctant to support spending more money to help poor and middle class people - yet they should forego partisanship and take this legislation seriously.

Instead of being available only to the poorest students (like Pell grants) free community college tuition would be available for all. The most powerful and enduring American social policies  - Social Security, infrastructure investments like the highway system and indeed public education itself - have always benefitted everyone. As it stands now, America's outdated student aid policies simply aren't fulfilling their mission and are instead actively failing to make college affordable for all students.

And,  unlike many other proposals to fix the twin problems of college affordability and student debt focused on four-year programs, free community college has the potential to meet the immediate needs of employers, who often say that they cannot find potential candidates with needed skills. Community college programs in fields like nursing, technology and even management are designed to give students the skills that employers need more quickly than the average bachelor's degree program.

Obama's plan is far from perfect. It is not a catch-all solution, and other major problems in American higher education still need to be addressed - including for-profit colleges that consume vast amounts of federal aid dollars but often leave students with little more than terrible debt burdens. The costs of private and public four-year institutions should not be ignored, so that the number of bachelor degree graduates will again rise. And the President's proposal only gives students a discount on tuition, which is just one part (albeit a major one) of the cost of going to school.

Yet there is no question that Congress should, if anything, seek to outdo Obama with an even more ambitious proposal, rather than negotiate to reduce his package. They should not let this proposal die upon arrival. Families can't afford to wait through more years of inaction.

[Editor's note: The author advised the White House on this effort, but was not compensated for her work .]