Safety is about protecting humans from machines while cybersecurity is about protecting machines from humans. One may argue on this statement whose source I was unable to find anymore, but we cannot negate that humans and machines are getting stronger interlinked every day. Moreover, the futurist and inventor Ray Kurzweil predicts that the human-machine civilization is our destiny.
Given that interactions between computers and human (natural) languages are based on language processing, it became increasingly important to upskill the computers in processing and analyzing large amounts of language data. Thus, the role of Natural Language Processing in the humans-machines interaction, and consequently also in the cybersecurity-world starts to gain traction. So what may be the role and applications of NLP in cybersecurity?
There are two main drivers nurturing the human-machine teaming in cybersecurity activities, and language is the main tool for both of them:
 
 
It could be empirically deducted from the recent years progresses, and from the exploding numbers of applications and researches, that machine learning for language processing plays an increasingly important role in the human-machine teaming. Its analytical and generative capabilities for speech and text are thus making it an important tool in the hands of all types of actors around cybersecurity.
To stress this idea, here are some NLP tasks that may be considered in creating threat or attack tools, or in defending humans and machines:
 
As you may see on paperswithcode.com/area/nlp, or on statista.com, or on many other sources, the number and the market of NLP applications is in a constant grow. Given that any IT system or application must consider the cybersecurity component nowadays, the role of NLP for this domain is also increasing. The plethora of researches and algorithms released every day may be therefore used for a suite of cybersecurity applications. The diagram below depicts some of them. It is split in 3 different types of usages, as follows:
