The great delusion of Andrew Lansley was to imagine that by bringing the market into the NHS, he could take the politics out. News this morning that Circle - the first private company to run an entire health service hospital - is manoeuvring to pull itself out will demonstrate precisely the opposite. The ramifications of privatisation could leave the service more electorally charged than ever before.

Parliament eventually imposed a deeply confused rewrite on the former health secretary's bill, but his original masterplan  - which David Cameron and Nick Clegg initially endorsed without bothering to read - was arrestingly clear. There would be a new healthcare market where funds followed the patients. NHS clinics and hospitals that couldn't win enough customers would go to the wall, while new commercial entrants storm in. Holding the ring would be a remote regulator similar to that which oversees the electricity sector - with an overriding duty to "promote competition". The thinking was that all those painful decisions that the experts always say are needed, but which the politicians have always ducked, would finally be settled as the unarguable consequence of choices made by patients themselves.

While it is true that the particular process that led to Circle assuming control of Hinchingbrooke hospital predates the Lansley reforms, tracing back to earlier New Labour flirtations with privatisation, its story nonetheless illustrates neatly why the Lansley plan was never going to work. Hinchingbrooke is in Huntingdon, where - as across much of the south of England - the local area supports more hospitals than a health service planner who was starting from scratch would go for. Every academic and thinktank report in health says that the way to make the NHS more efficient is "to move care closer to patients in their communities", and away from general infirmaries. But the move is rarely made decisively, because no politician wants to shut things down. The pre-privatisation Hinchingbrooke quietly sank into being a basket case. Private enterprise spotted a chance to prove its worth, and - with some fanfare - rode in to "turn it round".

Glowing headlines about both improving patient experience and even improving finances would soon follow. But today one surely has to ask how much of that was just sharp PR. After all,  the tricky underlying economics of healthcare in the region were not transformed - as the financial woes of nearby Peterborough and Stamford NHS foundation trust illustrate. And now, out of the blue - in a manner reminiscent of G4S's eve-of-Olympics confession that it was not going to do the full security that it had signed up for - the private contractor at Hinchingbrooke has admitted that it is losing its appetite for the job.

The same spin that previously flattered the company is now directed without mercy against the politicians instead. The company's statement highlights not only the developing A&E; crisis, but also the "inconsistent and conflicting regulatory regime" in the post-Lansley landscape, as well the gulf between NHS and social care services that Labour's Andy Burnham has made a particular line of attack on the coalition. These are real problems, but all could have been seen coming when Circle first got involved.

If this were a more conventional marketplace, it would be hard to grasp why serious investors would suddenly be pulling out. But then again, if healthcare were a more conventional market, serious investors would probably not have piled in, particularly in a region with one hospital too many in the first place. As with rail franchises, the emerging NHS market is attractive to private industry precisely because politicians stand behind it with a public chequebook. Much more detail is still to emerge, but my best guess is that Circle is moving to terminate its contract now because it imagined it would be able to swing more favourable treatment than it got.

From outsourced IT systems to over-priced PFIs, the British taxpayer has over a generation been learning the hard way that it is not wise to sign contracts that are hard to specify. When unexpected contingencies crop up private "partners" have got you over a barrel; when you fail to bend to their wishes, they can simply walk away. Today we are, perhaps, seeing exactly the same sort of problems affecting the NHS.

The big questions in healthcare remain unanswered, and the political blame game remains just as intense as before. Indeed,  it is even spiced up by the enterprising resources of private spin. And what solution has Monitor - Lansley's regulator - floated for Hinchingbrooke's struggling NHS neighbour at Peterborough and Stamford? Why, bringing in the private sector, of course.