Michael Gove is a difficult man to feel sorry for. It seems even his friends can't always manage it. David Cameron, for example  - I think he's his friend. He'd definitely say he was Michael Gove's friend but then, politicians being what they are, the fact that he'd say it doesn't enormously increase the statistical chances of its being true. Anyway, they're certainly political allies - or at least were, before Gove made his ill-judged remark about the "preposterous" number of the prime minister's coterie who went to Eton, which ironically led Cameron to lose faith in about the only one who didn't, Gove himself. "That's what you get," the PM must have muttered to himself, "for trusting oiks."

Since then Gove's slide down the greasy pole could hardly have been less dignified if he'd been wearing nipple tassels. Which, for all we know, he was. Like a former deputy headmaster who's been busted down to head prefect, Gove not only has to remain loyal to a government that has scorned him but, as chief whip, he must also enforce loyalty in others.

But I didn't feel sorry for him until last week when I read that his mobile phone had gone off during a cabinet meeting. This is obviously bad form: for security reasons, you're not even supposed to bring phones into those gatherings. To make matters worse his ringtone is, according to someone who was there: "Jazz FM-style comedown music after a heavy night out". I'm not entirely sure what that means, but it's clearly some sort of tune. I'm going to imagine it as the theme from Bod.

So in the middle of some serious conversation about the Charlie Hebdo shootings or the economy or the NHS, while Vince Cable is expressing some "serious concerns" and everyone else is trying to make drooping eyelids look like they're concentrating hard, suddenly it's "Diddle-it-deduh-dede-duh-duh!" and Gove is jumping and wriggling like George Osborne's Tasered him again. Gove's seated twist having gone on "for quite a while", the PM intervened with what one witness described as "a public bollocking".

Even if Cameron could summon no compassion for his friend, I can. I sympathise with Michael Gove here, as a point of principle. I also sympathise with those people in West End theatres who are hit by a volley of rage and sarcasm from some knight of the stage when Nokia Tune has crashed in on his soliloquy. I sympathise whenever it happens at meetings, weddings, carol services or when someone's tearfully coming out. I sympathise because one day it will happen to me.

However careful I am with my phone - and, as a slightly obsessive person, I'm pretty careful - there are times when I take it out, utterly convinced that it's been switched off for hours, and find five bars beaming back from my hand, as incriminating as a gory dagger. Most of the time, I check it every 30 seconds. But sometimes I just don't. My fastidious self-image deceives me into carelessness. At some point, I'm going to come a cropper. And when that shaming moment comes, as I fumble in my trousers by the heat of a hundred stares, I want to be surrounded by people who accept that this could happen to anyone, and might believe that this is an issue about which I'm at least averagely diligent.

That's not how it'll be, though. Our attitudes to accidental phone rings are stuck in the 80s. Even though the mobile has long since ceased to be a cutting-edge gadget possessed only by the high-earning early-adopting few, when one goes off inappropriately, we still visualise a shameless yuppie in red braces, Aston Martin double-parked outside, closing deals - an offensive symbol of profligate and faddish modernity.

This is hopelessly out of step with what these machines now mean to us. Research just published by a team at the University of Missouri shows that, when a sample of 40 people were temporarily deprived of their iPhones, their heart rate and blood pressure rose, and their ability to perform tasks suffered. Our mobiles, the paper suggests, are now "an extension of our physical selves, an umbilical cord, anchoring the information society's digital infrastructure to our very bodies". We hate to be parted from them and we don't much like turning them off.

Many will lament this, but it's not altogether bad. Our phones reassure us because they make us feel connected  - because if your mobile is turned on, in range and not ringing, it probably means that no work crisis has developed and no disaster has befallen a close friend or loved one. It's a constant everyone-in-your-life-is-more-or-less-OK monitor. Maybe we should learn to live without such reassurance, but it doesn't reflect entirely badly on us that we're comforted by it.

People often criticise one another for talking or texting on their phones in preference to live interaction. "We met for a coffee but she spent the whole time on the phone!" "We were having lunch and his mobile rang - and he actually answered it!" Such critics forget that, in the heyday of the landline, a ringing telephone - the phone in the hall - was always answered. The notion of call screening is entirely modern. It never used to be rude to answer - it was rude not to.

The onus of politeness, in those days, was on the caller. Except in an emergency, you didn't telephone someone at a mealtime, during their favourite television programme or after 10 o'clock. When you thought someone might not want to be disturbed, you didn't disturb them unless you had to. It's the passing of that etiquette, rather than the prevalence of mobile phones, that I think is a shame.

Of course,  in the age of the mobile, it's impossible to know whether the person you're calling will find it convenient to chat. You can't know if they're eating or in the cinema or reading the traffic news. So how about this: only call a mobile if you really need to. If you just want a chat, call a landline, and not during meals. So that, if "I Will Survive" starts blaring from your Android during an aunt's funeral, it's not you who's been rude. And the person who has isn't there.

David Mitchell's new book, Thinking About It Only Makes It Worse, is published by Guardian Faber (? 18.99). To order a copy for ? 11.99 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.