The last few days in global finance have been marked by dramatic developments in the energy sector. Oil prices have collapsed by about 40 percent since this year's peak in June. The plummeting oil prices have had negative consequences on economies across the world, from Moscow to Caracas to Tehran.

The situation is particularly bad in Russia where the shock of shrinking energy revenue is doubled by a monetary crisis. Just in the past week the Russian rouble lost 17 percent of its value in two days; its exchange rate to the US dollar has collapsed by over 50 percent since the beginning of the year.

Balancing an oil-dependent budget.

The energy crisis has its origin in a global surplus of crude oil supply resulting from a rapid expansion of oil production in the US. In order to dissuade additional investments in production of shale oil and tar sands in North America, and wedge a war on market shares, Saudi Arabia has voluntarily gone far above its previous OPEC production commitment. Some have seen this move as a plot by the Americans to punish countries like Iran and Russia.

Indeed,  the sharp decrease in oil prices to $60 per barrel is far below the breakeven point for countries such as Venezuela and Iran who need $140 per barrel to balance their budget and continue with their policies of social spending and subsidised imports of vital goods. The Russian economy is also very vulnerable to such price fluctuations as the energy sector accounts for about half of the state's revenues and a quarter of its gross domestic product.

Putin's gamble to assume that the West would not confront him over Ukraine because of energy security concerns was a miscalculation of the forces at play. The shrinking oil revenues coupled with the economic sanction packages have destroyed investors' confidence in the Russian economy, resulting in record levels of capital flight and a plunging rouble.

According to the Russian ministry of economic development, food prices in Russia will increase by 12 percent by the end of this year, and conservative estimates for the first months of 2015 already set inflation at 10 percent.

The recent announcement that Moscow was considering developing its own independent space station is just another smoke screen to hypnotise the Russian population. At the current rate of economic misfortunes, the Kremlin might not even have the financial means to design it on paper.