With the annual Ucas university application deadline looming on Thursday, thousands of 17-year-olds will be putting the finishing touches to their personal statements. And so another cycle of conditional offers, A-level results and nervous forays into freshers' week begins.

Unlike 50 years ago, when a tiny, socially elite proportion went to university, they will be joining almost 50% of their peers in studying for a degree, facing average costs of upwards of? 46k for a three-year degree, including tuition and living costs, compared with the generous grants available up until the 1990s.

Setting expansion aside, it is remarkable how much hasn't changed: at the heart of the system remains a core model of young people moving away to university to study for three-year full-time degrees; an expensive route for which they now bear much of the costs themselves. Yet the jobs market has changed beyond recognition. Graduates are now responsible for forging their own careers in a fluid market compared with the jobs for life that were the norm a few decades ago and employers are demanding a completely different set of skills. Does this model, then, remain fit for purpose?

The political debate has focused on fee levels and headline prices to the exclusion of almost everything else, including the benefits and value of a university education - and how they might be improved. The debate about whether the 50% participation target is too high has been similarly staid: surely it's a no-brainer to hope that at least half of young people engage in advanced learning. But what type of learning should that be?

One of the purported benefits of marketising higher education was that the market itself would deliver innovation and better value. But the government massively overegged the potential for higher education to behave like a market. Student demand far exceeds supply of places and price has become a proxy for quality. Little wonder, then, that average fees are far higher than the? 6,000 a year that the then universities minister, David Willetts, predicted when he introduced the? 9,000 fee cap.

We now have the nonsense of a market where students pay the same for very different amounts and quality of academic provision. This is reflected in the variation in students' own perceptions: research by the consumer body Which? found almost a third of first-year undergraduates thought their course was poor value for money, while less than half thought seminars were worth attending.

There is too little accountability for this variation within the powerful sector: universities award their own degrees; the sector is opaque, even resisting moves to publish comparable information on the amount of teaching students can expect for their fees; and the higher education regulator is weak, with virtually no powers to tell universities to buck up standards.

The debate about innovation has centred on distance learning and Moocs (Massive Online Open Courses). There is no doubt developments in technology have the potential to transform the way university education is experienced. But it's pointless to focus on technology at the expense of changes that need to happen in the system in order to take advantage of it. Moocs will not transform the sector until they are embraced by the most prestigious universities: why shouldn't you be able to study for a cut-price Oxford degree, half via YouTube and Skype, and half among the dreaming spires?

Other innovations that could bring down costs without sacrificing quality might be a restructure of the system to standardise first-year curriculums, enabling young people to combine studying for a year or two at their local university with a year or two on campus at a more specialist institution. We could see more professional degrees co-delivered and funded by universities and employers, such as the accountancy degree offered by Durham and KPMG in which young people benefit from six years of combined university and work experience.

Or there could be more intensive two-year courses, perhaps aimed at young people getting a year or two of work experience after school. University could be combined with more modern ways of adjusting to adulthood: for example,  a year spent in a structured volunteering programme, such as that offered by the charity City Year, offers huge opportunities to develop the grit and teamwork so valued by today's employers, while making a real contribution to schools and other public services.

But on some measures we are moving backwards, with a massive fall in numbers of part-time and mature students in the few years since the ? 9,000 fee cap was introduced. There are lessons from the 1960s, when Harold Wilson's government realised that the only way to increase access in the face of a reluctant sector was to back Michael Young's vision for a new institution, the Open University, which increased the student population by Britain by a fifth when it was launched via its distance learning degrees.

Government can't simply wait for the sector to do what it is asked to do. It needs to foster a conversation with universities, students and employers about what it means to get a degree. Of course there will always be a role for the academic. But should we be shoehorning the majority of undergraduates into this model, or should getting a degree more routinely encompass work experience?

It should also introduce strong new accountabilities within the sector. One way of doing this would be to separate degree-awarding powers from learning provision, as suggested by the Social Market Foundation. This would allow new providers to offer innovative ways of meeting the standards set by a Russell Group university, for example. And government should provide more incentives for universities to innovate.

Come Friday, many teenagers will be heaving a collective sigh of relief once their applications are in. They deserve the best possible learning experience for the significant time and money they will invest in their degrees: it's critical we don't shy away from a challenge to universities to ensure their ivory towers continue to evolve to keep pace with the world around them.