When the history of David Cameron's time as prime minister is written, no doctrine will be named after him. The government has been ideological, but not in a way that bears an intellectual imprint of the Conservative leader. There have been upheavals in schools, the health service and the benefits system, but those revolutions belong to Michael Gove, Andrew Lansley and Iain Duncan Smith. Cameron gave permission, he never pioneered.

Cameron has also said he abhors "isms" and wouldn't want posterity to anoint him with one. Friends say this makes him a practical conservative of the old school, guided by ancient and uncodified British instincts of decency. His enemies think that is a posh way of saying he lacks principle.

With no pattern of belief associated with his name, Cameron's legacy will be a collection of tactical manoeuvres, with as many prominent surrenders as victories. The true spirit of "Cameronism" in education, for example, is better conveyed in the removal in 2014 of Gove to placate the teaching profession than in his appointment to shake up the department in the first place.

But in no field is the Tory leader's trademark better defined than in his approach to Europe. If any political manoeuvre deserves to be named after the Conservative leader, it is the habit of trying to sate the appetites of hardline Eurosceptics with morsels that would always leave them hungry. It might be called the "Cameron concession". Thus has he fed the Eurosceptic pack enough to keep it snapping at his heels and frustrated it enough that his voice was drowned by angry barking.

Perhaps the saddest aspect of this spectacle is that it saw a potentially sound policy trampled in the melee. The outline of Cameron's position is that Britain should stay in the EU but under changed terms. They will change anyway because the priority for most other member states is bolstering the single currency. This involves the integration of a euro-core with serious implications for Britain's status one way or another. So the principle of pro- active renegotiation, ratified by referendum, is sound.

But Cameron spoiled a plausible position with cowardice: he set his renegotiation up as an empty vessel into which hardliners poured Ukip-ish fantasies of ending immigration. He bought the argument that says the terms on offer from Brussels get better the closer Britain gets to the exit, although that logic is commonly advanced by people who want the negotiations to fail. The deadline for his referendum, the end of 2017, was plucked from thin air without regard for what was diplomatically feasible or economically wise.

But the chief reason Cameron's EU policy hasn't worked for him is that voters also consider motive when awarding merit. Those who want a referendum in order to leave the EU mistrust the prime minister because he wants a different outcome; and pro-Europeans don't trust Cameron to defend Britain's interests in Europe because the whole policy came about as a sop to the sceptics. That doesn't leave many people who think the Tories have the right policy for the right reason.

Europe exemplifies the problem, but it runs deeper. Cameron's team are sure they are running on an admirable record: economic growth, rising employment, lower crime, a reduced deficit and reformed welfare. These are things, like the EU referendum, that should make the Tories popular. By the same calculation, Labour, lacking those credentials, should be out of the running. Yet the campaign has started and Ed Miliband is still ahead.

Downing Street clings to the now familiar explanation that voters haven't properly engaged with the choice, and that the Tory surge will come at the eleventh hour when the reality of a possible Miliband regime penetrates the national consciousness. But what if Cameron has hit the limit of credit available for five years in charge because even the good bits don't connect in people's minds with decent motives?

That is what Labour strategists are banking on. Miliband's personal ratings are bleak, except on measures of decency and empathy. So those are the leadership qualities his campaign aims to project. The contrast they want to draw is between Cameron's ethical plasticity and a challenger who sticks to his beliefs. Miliband will be cast as a man guided by what David Axelrod, Barack Obama's former aide now advising Labour, calls "a north star" - a compass point that tells voters a leader is propelled by something more noble than the salvation of his own skin. Waverers who don't warm to Miliband (and who aren't irredeemably riddled with anti-Westminster rage) might still be persuaded that he is in politics for the right reason.

The opposite is true of Cameron. Even those in his own party who like the direction of policy cannot sincerely claim that their leader is driven by much beyond a sense of entitlement to the job. That was less of an impediment in the past. For much of the 20th century, Britain was ruled by Conservatives who thought of political theory as something suspect or vulgar, a folly for continentals and socialists, and no substitute for the innate good sense drilled into English boys at the best schools.

The Thatcher revolution disrupted the patrician culture in the Conservative party, but not the underlying belief that Tory rule is a default setting for British politics; the norm to which the country tends. That assumption, more than economic growth, deficit reduction, an EU referendum or any other part of the prospectus, is what makes Cameron think he can stay on after May. It is the confidence that he is an archetypal prime minister and the only credible candidate for the job. Perhaps he will be proved right. He will have money and much of the press to amplify that view. But even loyal Conservatives can't entirely ignore the intellectual void at the centre. The right has decried it as often as the left.

The past five years have posed huge challenges for Britain regarding the economy, our place in Europe, England's relations with Scotland, the decline of trust in institutions. But of which encounter with a great problem can it be said the prime minister truly rose to the occasion? Cameron doesn't have big answers, he shrinks questions. And that is how history will remember him, whatever happens in May. He successfully pursued power and spent it without purpose.