On 20 September 1943, my great uncle Alex found for the first and last time in his life that the smarts for which he would always be renowned in his family were no longer enough: he was arrested in Nice and sent to the death camps.

Alex knew what awaited him there; his older brother Jakob had done this journey already and died in Auschwitz a year before. So he dug up the floorboards of the train with his stubby fingers, slipped through the hole, lay on the track while the train rattled over him and walked back to Paris, hidden along the way by communists. He then joined the Resistance, but he never trusted France again. In later life, he gave back the Legion d'Honneur he was awarded for his war service after Charles de Gaulle described Jews in 1967 as "elite, domineering and sure of themselves".

Are you tired of Holocaust stories? Apologies for bringing up all that "unpleasantness" again, but I've been thinking about Alex this week. According to a YouGov poll, 45% of Britons agreed with at least one antisemitic statement put to them, such as "Jews chase money more than other people" (endorsed by a whopping 25 %), and "Jews' loyalty to Israel makes them less loyal to Britain than other Britons" (20 %).

I feel less certain about another survey this week, by the Campaign Against Antisemitism, conducted on social media, which claimed that 54% of British Jews feel they have no future in the UK. But the tenacity of antisemitic beliefs is striking even in Britain, where, according to a separate report last year by Jewish Policy Research, 47% of the British Jewish respondents felt antisemitism was not a very big problem (although 40% did feel antisemitism had increased in the past five years).

This would have astonished Alex He adored Britain - he had been in Britain as part of the Free French before he was captured, and he often spoke about the comfort he got listening to the BBC World Service during his fighting days. I imagine it will astonish most Britons too, even those who, in a dark and unacknowledged place inside, instinctively agree with the statements posed by YouGov. You don't have to travel too far to find them in the UK. In fact,  you can just turn on the BBC.

One Jewish woman, the daughter of Holocaust survivors, told BBC reporter Tim Wilcox this week that the horrific murder of four people in a kosher supermarket made her worry about the return of Jewish persecution. "Many critics, though, of Israel's policy would suggest that the Palestinians suffer hugely at Jewish hands as well," Wilcox said - all but saying: "So swings and roundabouts, really."

Wilcox later apologised on Twitter for a "poorly phrased" question, as though the problem here was one of grammar. Only two months previously this same reporter, in an on-air discussion about Miliband losing Jewish support, said: "A lot of these prominent Jewish faces will be very much against the political mansion tax, presumably." They most certainly will! You know what those Jews are like - always watching their massive pile of shekels, with their prominent faces and their prominent noses.

Now we turn to Paris, where the terrible events of last week would not have surprised Alex nearly as much. There were an astonishing number of attacks on Jews and synagogues in France last year, with the result that twice as many Jews emigrated to Israel in 2014 than the year before.

Since the awful killings there has been plenty of talk from the media and politicians about how we all mustn't let this atrocity give rise to an anti- Muslim backlash. This is right and good. But can we take a few minutes to look at the lash itself, as well as dealing with the backlash? Four Jewish people were killed because they were in a Jewish supermarket, yet this inconvenient truth has been relatively little remarked upon, certainly compared with the angsting over the parameters of free speech at Charlie Hebdo, or commentary about the irony of the terrorists killing a fellow Muslim, the police officer Ahmed Merabet.

Is this because killing Jews is seen as par for the course when it comes to terrorist attacks? Because that does seem to be true. Going back to the attacks in Mumbai in 2008, the killers specifically sought out a Jewish community, Nariman House, and tortured and killed six Jews, including the Rabbi and his wife. The Taj Hotel has become the symbol of the Mumbai attacks but, according to some reports, it was actually Nariman House that was the terrorists' main target. Already the killer of the Jewish people in the supermarket is being referred to, incorrectly, as "the Charlie Hebdo killer".

So just par for the course? Maybe, but I don't think that's quite what's happening here. Jews are, as the YouGov report made very clear, seen as a pretty dominant people: in charge of the media, you know. And Hollywood too. Elite, domineering and sure of themselves. So when they are attacked, there is a sense that - well, they kinda brought this on themselves, and there are other groups that are less elite that need more looking after.

I'm not sure why this is an either/or situation. A person can be horrified by anti-Muslim prejudice and also terrified by the attacks on Jews, and to talk about one is not an endorsement of the other. For a BBC reporter to balance the killing of Jews in Paris against the atrocities in Palestine is the definition of idiocy. Not as bad as expressing outright sympathy with the killer of the Jews, as the reliably idiotic "comedian" Dieudonne M'Bala M'Bala did on Facebook, but still bad. This is not the victim Olympics, with only one possible "winner". These were people who were killed, not political statements.

My great uncle Alex led a wonderful life after the war as an art dealer, but, as I said, he never again trusted the country that had betrayed him so badly. When I asked once why he refused to keep his paintings in a bank vault, preferring instead to keep them hidden in his house, he replied: "Because they always come for the Jews." Plus ca change.