This week a court in Belgium announced that the convicted rapist and murderer Frank Van Den Bleeken would be put to death by a lethal injection, in spite of the fact that the death penalty is banned across Europe. Van Den Bleeken's case was unusual: having previously been declared insane and not criminally responsible, he had himself asked to be euthanised on the grounds that he would rather die than spend the rest of his life in jail.

Today the Belgian justice minister announced that Van Den Bleeken would not be euthanised after all, amid reports that the prisoner had changed his mind. Nonetheless,  the case provides a fascinating twist to the old debate about euthanasia. Should Van Den Bleeken have been allowed to die?

The moral defence of voluntary euthanasia is usually applied to people suffering from a terminal illness. But Van Den Bleeken isn't terminally ill and isn't in physical pain. Another traditional requirement is that the wish to die should be voluntary and competent. But how can the choices of someone who has been declared insane be regarded as voluntary and competent? The concern is that granting his request would make it a case of involuntary euthanasia, and that is usually seen as morally unacceptable.

If there is an issue about Van Bleeken's sanity that is because of his alleged inability to control his sexual impulses. But it could be argued that this doesn't affect the validity of his request to be euthanised. The implication is that while some of his decisions might be involuntary or incompetent, this doesn't apply to his choice of death over a lifetime behind bars.

Even so, should his request have been granted, given that he isn't terminally ill? One argument for allowing voluntary euthanasia where terminal illness isn't an issue turns on the idea of wellbeing: people should be allowed to choose death where they would literally be better off dead or where their life literally isn't worth living. Another argument turns on human autonomy: we should respect a person's free choices as long as they don't harm anyone else. Someone who is not terminally ill could still satisfy these requirements. Had Van Den Bleeken been allowed to die, critics may say it would have risked opening the floodgates for other similar cases. Belgium has seen a dramatic rise in euthanasia since the practice was legalised in 2002 and permitted in cases of pain and psychological distress, as well as terminal illness.

Some are opposed to voluntary euthanasia as a matter of principle. The philosopher David Velleman argues that there isn't a fundamental right to choose between life and death, and that a person's rights don't expand when they become terminally ill or psychologically distressed. He is heavily influenced by 18th century philosopher Immanuel Kant. According to Kant, morality requires that we respect the dignity of persons, and the dignity of persons makes them intrinsically valuable. For Kant, a person's dignity can't be traded against their wellbeing or happiness, and the fact that a person believes that their life isn't worth living doesn't make it acceptable for them to be euthanised.

The Van Den Bleeken case puts pressure on these standard arguments for and against voluntary euthanasia. Suppose that, contrary to Kant's view, voluntary euthanasia is morally permissible as long as the person asking to be euthanised would be genuinely better off dead. Relatives of Van Den Bleeken's victim may well argue that the fact (if it is a fact) that he would be better off dead is precisely a reason for not allowing him to be put to death. From this perspective, euthanasia looks like a way for him to circumvent his sentence.

Van Den Bleeken's victim was Christiane Remacle, a 19-year-old he raped and strangled in 1989. Her sisters are reported to have said that Van Den Bleeken should be forced to languish in jail, and their reaction brings out an ambivalence in how we think about the death penalty for murder. Relatives of murder victims often demand the death penalty as the ultimate punishment, but the Van Den Bleeken case suggests that, at least from the standpoint of the perpetrator, the ultimate sanction may be life behind bars.

But the intrinsic value argument against voluntary euthanasia can also be hard to swallow, in this case. Christiane Remacle's sisters might balk at the idea that a murderer's life is intrinsically valuable. It's hard not to sympathise, and there remain strong reasons for not allowing Van Den Bleeken to be euthanised regardless of whether his life is intrinsically valuable. As long as euthanasia is seen as a way for him to circumvent his sentence, respect for his victim and her family demands that he isn't given the option.