More

The overall chance of home users for personal computers encountering a cyber threat on their device has increased worldwide year-over-year, according to cybersecurity firm Avast’s latest Global PC Risk Report.
In India, the likelihood of a home user encountering any type of PC malware is 28.22 per cent. 
The report further explored the possibility of users facing ‘advanced’ threats. The cybersecurity firm defines advance threats as “more sophisticated or threats never seen before, designed to bypass common protection technologies included in security software signatures, heuristics, emulators, URL filtering, and email scanning.”
Indian home users have a 5.78 per cent risk ratio, when it comes to such threats which is higher than the global average.
Also read:Pegasus spyware: Senior journalists move SC seeking independent enquiry into govt snooping allegations
Globally, home users around the world have a 29.39 per cent chance of encountering any type of PC malware, which represents an increase of around 5 per cent compared to the previous year.
The chances of users being targeted by an advanced threat are relatively lower, but the proportion is similar to all threats, with consumers having a 5 per cent chance of encountering an advanced threat. In comparison, the chances were 4.61 per cent in the previous year.
“The risk ratio has increased worldwide for all malware attacks, and we can see that India is no exception,” said Michal Salat, Director of Threat Intelligence at Avast.
“In the pandemic, the internet has been kind of a ‘life saver’ for many, empowering them to stay connected with loved ones during the lockdown, to attend virtual workout sessions, get togethers, classes, and work remotely. But cybercriminals have also taken notice of this, and so we have seen a variety of tailored campaigns taking advantage of increased online activities, such as Covid-19 related attacks, sextortion campaigns, spyware, and ransomware,” Salat added.
Also read:Alarming number of attacks probing for unpatched software vulnerabilities, warms cybersecurity firm
Geographies with more conflictive socio-political situations, such as the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Eastern Europe, seem to be facing more risk in the online world as well, the report further revealed.
The data included in the report was collected from Avast’s threat detection network, and represents a data snapshot, constructed with the threats Avast protected its PC users from during March 16 and April 14.
Follow us on Telegram,
 Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube and
Linkedin. You can also download our  Android App or IOS App.
How ‘switched reluctance motors’ are being brought back, mainly to advance electric mobility 
No matter how desirable financial inclusion is, banks are not going to lend to small-ticket, first-time ...
From poor applicability of policy to lack of quality manpower and capital, problems plaguing them are manifold ...
India hardly has any ‘low-cost’ airline, there are only ‘low-fare’ ones
Are your aspirations and financial literacy on similar lines? Read on to find out
Factors to keep in mind for ‘Financial Independence, Retire Early’ aspirants
The scheme has been a long-term underperformer in mid-cap fund space
The company is geared up to deliver healthy revenue growth as government pushes for higher gas usage
In every statement made by anybody of any consequence, the main concern is about the fate of Afghan women ...
A nostalgic look at the vintage Vageeswari camera invented in Alappuzha — back in focus as it is spotlighted ...
Pandit Ravi Shankar and George Harrison pulled off a coup of sorts when they managed to get Bob Dylan, Eric ...
A poet responds to the emerging crisis in Afghanistan the only way she knows — with words
The company takes its biscuit lovers down nostalgia lane
Mental health issues in public, gender equality and sustainability have come to the fore
It has been a short lived innings for Twitter’s Fleets – the vanishing posts modelled on Instagram’s Stories ...
Film maker Ram Madhvani, who has acclaimed films like Neerja and the hit web series Aarya , under his belt is ...
Three years after its inception, compliance with GST procedures remains a headache for exporters, job workers ...
Corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives of companies are altering the prospects for wooden toys of ...
Aequs Aerospace to create space for large-scale manufacture of toys at Koppal 
And it has every reason to smile. Covid-19 has triggered a consumer shift towards branded products as ...
More


Companies



TRENDING TODAY


TRENDING THIS WEEK


LATEST NEWS


SECTIONS


GROUP TOP TRENDS


The Hindu


Sportstar

