How they can help in wealth creation
Tomorrow is different. Let's reshape it today
#TougherTogether
Hunt for the brightest engineers in India
Mental Health Awareness Initiative
"We follow the Least Privilege Principle while providing access. Unless there is a requirement, the storage rights are not provided on the local system to end users. Other principles and practices which are helpful are: purpose limitation, data minimization, storage limitation, deployment of EDR, multi-factor authentication, cloud proxy and authenticated scans on every machine."
— Vispi Palsetia, CIO, Teleperformance India
"Data theft or sabotaging services (denial of services) targeting critical infrastructure has a grave impact on ordinary residents. The situation worsens a lot more if it is falling in the category of cross-border espionage. The use of AI and ML is necessary for continuous monitoring with appropriate remedial actions."
— Suresh Sethi, MD & CEO, NSDL eGov
"There is an increasing demand for cybersecurity and application security and verification solutions. The number of such new requirements has doubled in the last 12 months."
— Balaji Viswanathan, MD & CEO, Expleo Solutions Ltd
"Budget allocation towards cyber security has been steadily increasing over the past few years owing to the increased threats and increasing awareness amongst IT & business leaders alike. The spend allocation has received a fillip in the pandemic and the numbers are falling between 10-12% incremental."
— Mathew Chacko, Founder & CEO, Precision Group
"Education about secure credentials and the use of password managers has become a central part of all teams. Apart from having a robust security team and aware employees, we also limit the amount of personal data collected from consumers while ensuring data encryption.At the policy level, regulations like Personal Data Protection Bill (PDB) 2019 helps companies build frameworks that help in secure storage of personal data and create provisions to safeguard in case of a data breach."
— Nityanand Sharma, Co-Founder & CEO, Simpl
Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily Market Updates & Live Business News.
Trending Now
Popular Categories
Hot on Web
In Case you missed it
ET Verticals
More from our network
Other useful Links
services
Find this comment offensive?
Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action
Reason for reporting:
Your Reason has been Reported to the admin.
Log In/Connect with:
Will be displayed
Will not be displayed
Will be displayed
Stories you might be interested in
