

An Illinois pharmacist arrested today faces 120 years in prison for allegedly selling dozens of authentic COVID-19 vaccination record cards issued by the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
"Knowingly selling COVID vaccination cards to unvaccinated individuals puts millions of Americans at risk of serious injury or death," said FBI Special Agent in Charge Emmerson Buie Jr.
"To put such a small price on the safety of our nation is not only an insult to those who are doing their part in the fight to stop COVID-19, but a federal crime with serious consequences."
34-year-old Tangtang Zhao from Chicago worked as a licensed pharmacist for a nationwide chain of stores and pharmacies that also distributed and administered COVID-19 vaccines.
According to the indictment, Zhao sold 134 real vaccination cards to 11 buyers who paid him roughly $1276, amounting to around $10 per vaccination card.
Zhao is now being charged with 12 counts of theft of government property, facing ten years in prison for each of the counts if found guilty.
He made his initial court appearance on Tuesday before US Magistrate Judge Sheila M. Finnegan of the US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois.
"We take seriously, and will vigorously investigate, any criminal offense that contributes to the distrust around vaccines and vaccination status," added Assistant Attorney General Kenneth A. Polite Jr. of DOJ's Criminal Division.
"The Department of Justice and its law enforcement partners are committed to protecting the American people from these offenses during this national emergency."
In March, US federal agencies warned the public against making or selling fake COVID-19 vaccination record cards to avoid breaking the law.
The FBI, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Office of Inspector General (HHS-OIG) also warned against filling in blank vaccination record cards with false information.
"By misrepresenting yourself as vaccinated when entering schools, mass transit, workplaces, gyms, or places of worship, you put yourself and others around you at risk of contracting COVID-19," the federal agencies said.
The warning came after alerts issued by the FBI and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) warning not to post photos of CDC COVID-19 vaccination cards on social media platforms.
US brokers warned of ongoing phishing attacks impersonating FINRA
US Census Bureau hacked in January 2020 using Citrix exploit
CISA shares guidance on how to prevent ransomware data breaches
Education giant Pearson fined $1M for downplaying data breach
SIM swap scammer pleads guilty to Instagram account hijacks, crypto theft
Not a member yet? Register Now
T-Mobile says hackers stole records belonging to 48.6 million individuals
CISA shares guidance on how to prevent ransomware data breaches
To receive periodic updates and news from BleepingComputer, please use the form below. 
Terms of Use -  Privacy Policy - Ethics Statement
Copyright @ 2003 - 2021  Bleeping Computer® LLC  - All Rights Reserved
Not a member yet? Register Now
Read our posting guidelinese to learn what content is prohibited.
