
 Cloud Infrastructure Management  
Have you ever felt a desire to take some mechanism apart to find out how it works? Well, who hasn’t. That desire is the leading force in reverse engineering. This skill is useful for analyzing product security, finding out the purpose of a suspicious .exe file without running it, recovering lost documentation, developing a new solution based on legacy software, etc.
This tutorial provides you with easy to understand steps for a simple file system filter driver development. The demo driver that we show you how to create prints names of open files to debug output.
This article is written for engineers with basic Windows device driver development experience as well as knowledge of C/C++. In addition, it could also be useful for people without a deep understanding of Windows driver development.
This article includes description of simple unhooker that restores original System Service Table hooked by unknown rootkits, which hide some services and processes.
The following article will help you to understand principles of Windows processes starting. In addition, it will show you how to set some filters for process start, including allowing and forbidding ones.
This article would be useful for Windows developers, as it explains how to create a virtual disk for the Windows system.
Data mining is the process of identifying patterns in large datasets. Data mining techniques are heavily used in scientific research (in order to process large amounts of raw scientific data) as well as in business, mostly to gather statistics and valuable information to enhance customer relations and marketing strategies.
Data mining has also proven a useful tool in cyber security solutions for discovering vulnerabilities and gathering indicators for baselining.
In this article, we take a closer look at the role of data mining in information security and the malware detection process.
Written by:
Maria Yatsenko,
Ma

What is data mining? In general, it is a process that involves analyzing information, predicting future trends, and making proactive, knowledge-based decisions based on large datasets.
While the term data mining is usually treated as a synonym for Knowledge Discovery in Databases (KDD), it’s actually just one of the steps in this process. The main goal of KDD is to obtain useful and often previously unknown information from large sets of data.
The entire KDD process includes four steps:
Data mining helps you find new interesting patterns, extract hidden (yet useful and valuable) information, and identify unusual records and dependencies from large databases. To obtain valuable knowledge, data mining uses methods from statistics, machine learning, artificial intelligence (AI), and database systems.
In recent years, many IT industry giants such as Comodo, Symantec, and Microsoft have started using data mining techniques for malware detection.
Read also: What Is the Difference Between Cloud Computing and Edge Computing?
Many methods are used for mining big data, but the following eight are the most common:
You can apply one or several data mining methods to create an efficient model that will ensure successful detection of attacks.
Next, we’ll take a closer look at how you can use data mining for cyber security solutions.
Related services
Data mining is one of the four detection methods used today for detecting malware. The other three are scanning, activity monitoring, and integrity checking.
When building a security app, developers use data mining methods to improve the speed and quality of malware detection as well as to increase the number of detected zero-day attacks.
There are three strategies for detecting malware:
Anomaly detection involves modeling the normal behavior of a system or network in order to identify deviations from normal usage patterns. Anomaly-based techniques can detect even previously unknown attacks and can be used for defining signatures for misuse detectors.
The main problem with anomaly detection is that any deviation from the norm, even if it is a legitimate behavior, will be reported as an anomaly, thus producing a high rate of false positives.
Misuse detection, also known as signature-based detection, identifies only known attacks based on examples of their signatures. This technique has a lower rate of false positives but can’t detect zero-day attacks.
A hybrid approach combines anomaly and misuse detection techniques in order to increase the number of detected intrusions while decreasing the number of false positives. It doesn’t build any models, but instead uses information from both harmful and clean programs to create a classifier – a set of rules or a detection model generated by the data mining algorithm. Then the anomaly detection system searches for deviations from the normal profile and the misuse detection system looks for malware signatures in the code.
When using data mining, malware detection consists of two steps:
In the first step, various features such as API calls, n-grams, binary strings, and program behaviors are extracted statically and dynamically to capture the characteristics of the file samples. Feature extraction can be performed by running static or dynamic analysis (with or without actually running potentially harmful software). A hybrid approach that combines static and dynamic analysis may also be used.
During classification and clustering, file samples are classified into groups based on feature analysis. To classify samples, you can use classification or clustering techniques.
To classify file samples, you need to build a classification model (a classifier) using classification algorithms such as RIPPER, Decision Tree (DT), Artificial Neural Network (ANN), Naive Bayes (NB), or Support Vector Machines (SVM). Clustering is used for grouping malware samples that have similar characteristics.
Using machine learning techniques, each classification algorithm constructs a model that represents both benign and malicious classes. Training a classifier using such file sample collection makes it possible to detect even newly released malware.
Note that the effectiveness of data mining techniques for malware detection critically depends on the features you extract and the categorization techniques you use.
Read also: Fileless Malware: Specifics, Detection, and Protection Tips
Aside from detecting malware code, data mining can be effectively used to detect intrusions and analyze audit results to detect anomalous patterns. Malicious intrusions may include intrusions into networks, databases, servers, web clients, and operating systems.
There are two types of intrusion attacks you can detect using data mining methods:
To detect host-based attacks, you need to analyze features extracted from programs, while to detect network-based attacks, you need to analyze network traffic. And just like with malware detection, you can look for either anomalous behavior or cases of misuse.
You can detect various types of fraud using data mining techniques, from financial fraud to telecommunications fraud and computer intrusions. Fraudulent activities can be detected with the help of supervised and unsupervised learning.
With supervised learning, all available records are classified as either fraudulent or non-fraudulent. This classification is then used for training a model to detect possible fraud. The main drawback of this method is its inability to detect new types of attacks. Unsupervised learning methods help identify privacy and security issues in data without using statistical analysis.
Using data mining in cyber security lets you
While this list of the benefits is impressive, there are also certain drawbacks you need to know about:
Data mining helps you quickly analyze huge datasets and automatically discover hidden patterns, which is crucial when it comes to creating an effective anti-malware solution that’s able to detect previously unknown threats. However, the final result of using data mining methods always depends on the quality of data you use.
When using data mining in cyber security, it’s crucial to use only quality data. However, preparing databases for analysis requires a lot of time, effort, and resources. You need to clear all your records of duplicate, false, and incomplete information before working with them. Lack of information or the presence of duplicate records or errors can significantly decrease the effectiveness of complex data mining techniques. Only using accurate and complete data can ensure high quality of analysis.
Related services
Data mining has great potential as a malware detection tool. It allows you to analyze huge sets of information and extract new knowledge from it.
The main benefit of using data mining techniques for detecting malicious software is the ability to identify both known and zero-day attacks. However, since a previously unknown but legitimate activity may also be marked as potentially fraudulent, there’s the possibility for a high rate of false positives.
By clicking OK you give consent to processing your data and subscription to Apriorit Blog updates
Do not have any specific task for us in mind but our skills seem interesting?
Get a quick Apriorit intro to better understand our team capabilities.
